Electrophysiology in barrel cortex during corridor tracking
===========================================================

To examine other cortical layers, and to verify the response properties
observed with calcium imag- ing, we made extracellular recordings from
barrel cortex in a separate group of mice running through the winding
corridor (Figure 4a) (13 mice). We used 32-channel single shank silicon probes

.. figure:: figures/figure_4.png
   :target: http://binder.yuvi.in/

   Figure 4. Extracellular electrophysiology during whisker-guided locomotion. (a) Schematic showing silicon probe recordings during open loop trials. The wall was moved in and out of different fixed distances from the mouse during a period of 4 s. (b) Coronal section through the brain of an Scnn1a- Tg3-Cre x RCL-ChR2-EYFP mouse acquired with green filter showing the barrels. Image acquired with orange filter is superimposed on top showing the track of the silicon probe coated in DiI. Electrolytic lesion is seen at the end of the DiI trace. Location of the probe is identified as C3 barrel. (c) Example spike rasters of regular spiking units during open-loop trials. Each row of the raster corresponds to one trial and each dot corresponds to one spike. The color of each dot represents the position of the wall at the time of the spike. Recordings are performed around C1 and C2 barrels. Only trials with running speed over 3 cm/s are represented. (d) Corresponding tuning curves to wall distance for the spike rasters shown in B (mean ± SE over trials). (e) Histogram of the location of tuning curve peaks. (f) Scatter plot of tuning curve suppression vs. activation. Activation is the difference between peak rate and baseline rate when the wall is out of reach. Suppression is the difference between minimum rate and baseline rate. (g) Heatmaps of z-scored tuning curves for units activated by more than 1 Hz (top) and units suppressed by more than 1 Hz (bottom) sorted by the location of the maximum and minimum wall distances respectively. Units that were both activated and suppressed appear in both plots. (h) Histogram of the tuning modulation, defined as the ratio of the difference between the activation and suppression divided by the sum of the activation and suppression. Units that are just Figure 4 continued on next page

in mice expressing ChR2-eYFP in layer 4 neurons (Scnn1a-Tg3-Cre x Ai32).
We targeted recordings to barrel field by visualizing the eYFP
fluorescence during surgery. The probe was coated with DiI, allowing us
to reconstruct the probe location within the barrel cortex (Figure 4b).
Recordings were clustered around the C2 barrel (Figure 4—figure
supplement 1a). Current source density analysis triggered on layer 4
activation of ChR2 and electrolytic lesions were used to calibrate
the laminar location of the probe and determine the depth of the
recorded neurons (Figure 4—figure supple- ment 1b). Recordings spanned
layer 2 to layer 5, although the majority of units were located in
infra- granular layers (Figure 4—figure supplement 2a). Baseline and
peak spike rates were higher in deeper layer neurons (Figure 4—figure
supplement 2b,c). Spike sorting was performed manually, and both false
alarm rate of the inter-spike-interval distribution < 1.5% and waveform
SNR > 6 were used as quality control metrics (Figure 4—figure supplement
1c,f). As with the imaging experi- ments, analysis was restricted to
periods of running (speed > 3 cm/s), ensuring the mice were actively
whisking (Sofroniew et al., 2014).